
# Day 2 - Syntax, Comments, Variables, and Data Types

Now you know how to print a simple text into the python window. Python syntax can be executed by writing directly in the Command Line or by creating a python file, using .py file extension.
```python
>>> print("Hellow, World!")
Hellow, World!
```
## Python Indentation
Indentation refers to the spaces at the beginning of a code line. Other programming languages use indentation for code readability only, but indentation in Python is very important. Python uses indentation to indicate a block of code.

```python
if 2 > 1:
  print("Two is greater than one!")
```
Python will give you an **error** if you skip the indentation

## Python Comments
Comments can be used to explain Python code, make it more readable. Comments start with #, and Python will ignore the line. 
```python
#This is a comment
print("Hello, World!")
```
Multilines Comments 
```python
""" This is a comment
print("Hello, World!")
Comment more than oneline
"""
```
## Python Variables

 If you have to type the same text again and again, you need to either copy and paste it into your print function every time or type. If we can use a small indicator to store the whole text then every time we can just simply use that indicator to print it. It's like a roll number given to a student. When a teacher discusses about student they can mention the roll number instead of calling out the full name or all the features of that individual. That's why we use names for everything. Same happens in programming language, we use a name to store the whole string and that name is often known as **variable**.

You can also think of a cup or mug as a variable, and its contents as value. Thus a variable can, here cup can have water, milk, tea etc.,

We will see how differently we can use our greetings and print them by their name.

```python
gm = "Good morning"
print(gm)
```

In Above `gm` is the variable name which can be used later as well. Everytime you don't need to type the whole text. Just use the name wherever needed.  

### Creating Variables
Variables are containers for storing data values. Python has no command for declaring a variable.

A variable is created the moment you first assign a value to it.
```python
# Example - Variables
x = 5
y = "John"
print(x)
print(y)
```
Variables do not need to be declared with any particular type, and can even change type after they have been set.
```python
# Example - Variables
x = 4       # x is of type int
x = "Ravi" # x is now of type str
print(x)
```

### Casting
If you want to specify the data type of a variable, this can be done with casting.
```python
# Example - Casting
x = str(3)    # x will be '3'
y = int(3)    # y will be 3
z = float(3)  # z will be 3.0
```
### Get Type
You can get the data type of a variable with the type() function.
```python
# Example - type()
x = 5
y = "John"
print(type(x))
print(type(y))
```
String variables can be declared either by using single or double quotes. Variable names are case-sensitive.

Try taking inputs from users and print. Hint - check casting, type

## Python Data Types
Variables can store data of different types, and different types can do different things.

Python has the following data types built-in by default, in these categories:

- Text Type:	str
- Numeric Types:	int, float, complex
- Sequence Types:	list, tuple, range
- Mapping Type:	dict
- Set Types:	set, frozenset
- Boolean Type:	bool
- Binary Types:	bytes, bytearray, memoryview
- None Type:	NoneType

You already know type() to check the which type of Data Type being used by the variable, and casting to change Data Types, if required. 


## Day 2 - Exercise

1. Create a variable with a name `yourname` and assign the value of your name. Then call the variable in `print()` function.
2. Create a variable for your favourite book and `print()` it.


---
[Next: Day 3 - Other variable types](03-day03.md)

[Back to Index](index.md)
