
# Day 6 - More with Lists & Loop. Introduction to Conditions, Tuples, Sets, Dictionaries

### Continue Lists & Loop
Complete the exercises - Python program to print even numbers in a list - easy way
- create a list
- populate the list with number 1 to 20
- print the even numbers
- print the odd numbers

Let us complete the exercise here [Day-06-Exercise](https://app.edublocks.org/project/2PgJC1xT7FQhR35obp4zUBMNNFh1/GYTmeAMVaX12T58ONiIG)

```python
mylist=[]
for i in range(10):
    mylist.append(i+1)

print(mylist)

#Print odd numbers - improper way
x = 1
while x< len(mylist):
    print(x)
    x = x+2

#Find odd numbers
# Iterate through each element in the list
for val in mylist:
    # Checks if a number is divisible by 2 (i.e., even).
    if val % 2 == 0:
        print("The number is even: " + str(val))
    else:
        print("The number is odd: " + str(val))


#Using List Comprehension
# Create a list of even numbers using list comprehension
res = [val for val in mylist if val % 2 == 0]
print(res)
```
Hope you have understood condition, usage of **If** statement

### Python Conditions and If statements

Python supports the usual logical conditions from mathematics:

- Equals: a == b
- Not Equals: a != b
- Less than: a < b
- Less than or equal to: a <= b
- Greater than: a > b
- Greater than or equal to: a >= b
 - Loop Lists - for, while loops

``` python 
a = 3
b = 4
if b > a:
  print("b is greater than a")
```

**Indentation** - Python relies on indentation (whitespace at the beginning of a line) to define scope in the code. Other programming languages often use curly-brackets for this purpose.

**Elif** The elif keyword is Python's way of saying "if the previous conditions were not true, then try this condition"
``` python 
a = 3
b = 3
if b > a:
  print("b is greater than a")
elif a == b:
  print("a and b are equal")
```
**Else** The else keyword catches anything which isn't caught by the preceding conditions.
``` python 
a = 200
b = 33
if b > a:
  print("b is greater than a")
elif a == b:
  print("a and b are equal")
else:
  print("a is greater than b")
```
Short Hand If
```if a > b: print("a is greater than b")```

Short Hand If ... Else
If you have only one statement to execute, one for if, and one for else, you can put it all on the same line
```print("A") if a > b else print("B")```

#### We will cover the below next week 
- And -The and keyword is a logical operator, and is used to combine conditional statements
- Or - The or keyword is a logical operator, and is used to combine conditional statements
- Not -The not keyword is a logical operator, and is used to reverse the result of the conditional statement
- Nested If - You can have if statements inside if statements, this is called nested if statements.
- The pass Statement - if statements cannot be empty, but if you for some reason have an if statement with no content, put in the pass statement to avoid getting an error.

### Python Tuple

Tuple - Tuples are used to store multiple items in a single variable. A tuple is a collection which is ordered and unchangeable.

thistuple = ("apple", "banana", "cherry")
print(thistuple)

Let us now, complete the exercises with all the examples for Tuples from [W3Schools](https://www.w3schools.com/python/python_tuples.asp)

### Python Sets

Set - Sets are used to store multiple items in a single variable. Set is one of 4 built-in data types in Python used to store collections of data, the other 3 are List, Tuple, and Dictionary, all with different qualities and usage. A set is a collection which is **unordered, unchangeable, and unindexed.**

Let us now, complete the exercises with all the examples for Sets from [W3Schools](https://www.w3schools.com/python/python_sets.asp)

### Python Dictionaries
Dictionary - Dictionaries are used to store data values in key:value pairs. A dictionary is a collection which is ordered*, changeable and do not allow duplicates.

Let us now, complete the exercises with all the examples for Dictionary from [W3Schools](https://www.w3schools.com/python/python_dictionaries.asp)

## EduBlock 
Now moving back for our EduBlocks to continue with Turtle Iteration - 
[Turtle Iteration](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1AEOZ-NNwVJChIOKZTFNYgzswIrurrfL1/edit#slide=id.p1)

Turtle User Inputs & Data Types [Lesson3](https://curriculum.edublocks.org/)


------
[Next: Day 7 - List, Conditions, Tuples, Sets, Edublock](07-day07.md)

[Back to Index](index.md)
