
# Day 9 - Revise Collections (arrays)List, Tuples, Sets, Dictionaries. Introduction to Function. 

### Let us quickly revise what we learned about collections or arrays 

There are four collection data types in the Python programming language:

- List is a collection which is ordered and changeable. Allows duplicate members.[]
- Tuple is a collection which is ordered and unchangeable. Allows duplicate members. ()
- Set is a collection which is unordered, unchangeable, and unindexed. No duplicate members. Set items are unchangeable, but you can remove and/or add items whenever you like.{}
- Dictionary is a collection which is ordered and changeable. No duplicate members.{}

### Python function
A function is a block of code which only runs when it is called. You can pass data, known as parameters, into a function, example print(). A function can return data as a result.
Let us see some examples

```python
def my_function():
  print("Hello from a function")

my_function()
```
Let now follow the [Function](https://www.w3schools.com/python/python_functions.asp) to learn **Arguments or Parameters**, 

### Let us now code something interesting. Find out the Area of a Circle. 

Write a Python program that calculates the area of a circle based on the radius entered by the user.

Area of circle - πr2, here π represents a constant, approximately equal to 3.14159.
area = π * r^2 (r raised to power 2 - r**2)

```python
# Import the 'pi' constant from the 'math' module to calculate the area of a circle
from math import pi

# Prompt the user to input the radius of the circle
radius = float(input("Plese input the radius of the circle : "))

# Calculate the area of the circle using the formula: area = π * r^2
area = pi * radius ** 2

# Display the result, including the radius and calculated area
print("The area of the circle with radius " + str(radius) + " is: " + str(area))
```

------
[Next: Day 10 - Continue Functions, ,](10-day10.md)

[Back to Index](index.md)